Documentation for IgxGrid complex data binding (#1229)
IgniteUI/igniteui-docfx: en/components/grid/grid.md

**Note**: The grid [`autoGenerate`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxgridcomponent.html#autogenerate) property is best to be avoided when binding to remote data for now. It assumes that the data is available in order to inspect it and generate the appropriate columns. This is usually not the case until the remote service responds, and the grid will throw an error. Making [`autoGenerate`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxgridcomponent.html#autogenerate) available, when binding to remote service, is on our roadmap for future versions.

### Complex data binding

The [IgxGridComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxgridcomponent.html) main purpose is to handle **flat data**, but this does not mean that it is impossible to work with more complex data.

In this section we will cover, how to configure [IgxGridComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxgridcomponent.html) with **composite nested data** and **composite flat data**.

#### Nested data

> In order to bind hierarchical data to **IgxGrid** you have to use two things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to bind hierarchical data to **IgxGrid** you may use:
```

>     - **the value of the cell, that contains the nested data**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - the `value` of the cell, that contains the nested data
```

>     - **a custom column template**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - a custom column template
```

> The data we are going to render:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the data that we are going to use:
```

            },
            {
                Age: 29,
                HireDate: new Date(2009, 6, 19),
                ID: 2,
                Name: "Thomas Anderson",
                Title: "Senior Software Developer"
            },
            {
                Age: 31,
                HireDate: new Date(2014, 8, 18),
                ID: 11,
                Name: "Monica Reyes",
                Title: "Software Development Team Lead"
            }],
        HireDate: new Date(2008, 3, 20),
        ID: 1,
        Name: "Johnathan Winchester",
        Title: "Development Manager"
    },
...
```
The custom template for the column, that will render the nested data:

```html
...
<igx-column field="Employees" header="Employees" width="40%" editable="true">
                <ng-template #nestedDataTemp igxCell let-cell="cell">
                    <div class="employees-container">
                            // For every employee record in the Employee field, render its Name, Title and HireDate value
                        <div *ngFor="let employee of cell.value">
                            <span><strong>Name:</strong> {{employee.Name}} </span>

>                             

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                            <span><strong>Title:</strong> {{employee.Title}} </span>

>                             

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                            <span><strong>Hire Date:</strong> {{employee.HireDate | date:'shortDate'}} </span>

>                             

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                        </div>
                    </div>
                </ng-template>
...
```

> Оnly with this template you will not be able to make **CRUD** operations, so we need an editor template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that with this template you will not be able to make editing operations, so we need an editor template.
```

                            <strong>Title:</strong>
                            <igx-input-group>
                                <input igxInput [(ngModel)]="employee.Title" style="text-overflow:ellipsis" />
                            </igx-input-group>
                        </span>
                            <span>
                            <strong>Hire Date:</strong>
                            <igx-date-picker [(ngModel)]="employee.HireDate" [label]="''"></igx-date-picker>
                        </span>
                        </div>
                    </div>
                </ng-template>
</igx-column>
...
```

And the result from this configuration is:

<div class="sample-container loading" style="height:500px">
    <iframe id="grid-nested-dataBind-iframe" data-src='{environment:demosBaseUrl}/grid/grid-nested-data-binding' width="100%" height="100%" seamless="" frameborder="0" class="lazyload"></iframe>
</div>
<div>
<button data-localize="stackblitz" disabled class="stackblitz-btn" data-iframe-id="grid-nested-dataBind-iframe" data-demos-base-url="{environment:demosBaseUrl}">view on stackblitz</button>
</div>
<div class="divider--half"></div>

#### Flat data

> The composite flat data binding approach is similar to the nested data, but instead of **cell value** we use the [`rowData`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxrowcomponent.html#rowdata) property of the [IgxRowComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxrowcomponent.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flat data binding approach is similar to the one that we already described above, but instead of **cell value** we are going to use the [`rowData`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxrowcomponent.html#rowdata) property of the [IgxRowComponent]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxrowcomponent.html).
```

Since the grid is a component for **rendering**, **manipulating** and **preserving** data records, having access to **every data record** gives you the opportunity to customize the approach of handling it. The [`rowData`]({environment:angularApiUrl}/classes/igxrowcomponent.html#rowdata) property provides you this opportunity.

> The data that we will render:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is the data that we are going to use:
```
